Use the W&B MCP server (#2089)
wandb/docs: platform/mcp-server.mdx

---
title: Access the W&B MCP Server
description: Connect your IDE or LLM application to W&B's Model Context Protocol (MCP) server to provide your agent with access to your W&B workspace, data, and W&B's documentation.
---

import McpConfig from '/snippets/en/_includes/mcp-config.mdx';

> The W&B MCP (Model Context Protocol) server lets you query and analyze your W&B data from your IDE or MCP client. It also provides your client with programmatic access to W&B's documentation, giving it additional context and accuracy when generating responses to W&B-related queries.

Reviewer: I'd prefer to explode MCP separately. Maybe something like this.
```suggestion
Model Context Protocol (MCP) lets an LLM agent query and analyze data efficiently to minimize cost in tokens. This page shows how to use the W&B MCP server to query and analyze your W&B data from your IDE or MCP client and give your client programmatic access to W&B's documentation, so it can generate more accurate responses to W&B-related queries.
```

It integrates natively with most IDEs, coding clients, and chat agents, including:
* Cursor
* Visual Studio Code (VS Code)
* Claude Code
* Codex
* Gemini CLI
* Mistral LeChat
* Claude Desktop

> We offer both [hosted](#use-w&b’s-remote-mcp-server) and [local](#set-up-a-local-version-of-the-w&b-mcp-server) versions of the MCP server. The hosted version only supports [dedicated cloud deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud). The local version supports both dedicated cloud and [on-premises deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The W&B MCP server supports [hosted](#use-w&b’s-remote-mcp-server) and [local](#set-up-a-local-version-of-the-w&b-mcp-server) variants. The hosted version only supports [W&B Dedicated Cloud deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud). The local version supports both Dedicated Cloud and [Self-Managed deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed).
```
The names of the deployments are W&B Dedicated Cloud, W&B Self-Managed, W&B Multi-tenant Cloud. :)

> We offer both [hosted](#use-w&b’s-remote-mcp-server) and [local](#set-up-a-local-version-of-the-w&b-mcp-server) versions of the MCP server. The hosted version only supports [dedicated cloud deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/dedicated_cloud). The local version supports both dedicated cloud and [on-premises deployments](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed).

Reviewer 2: The hosted version currently only supports the "multi-tenant SaaS deployments of W&B". However, we're working on adding support for dedicated and on-prem support right now with Ayush and Jason. They are already supported by the local version as you said.

> ## What can the W&B MCP server do?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## W&B MCP Server capabilities
```
What about a heading like this? I try to avoid questions as headings.

Author: oh right! I totally meant to change this. I forgot about your rightful disklike of questions as headers

You can use the MCP server to analyze experiments, debug traces, create reports, and get help with integrating your applications with W&B features.

> The following example prompts demonstrate the types of tasks your agent can perform when connected to the server:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example prompts demonstrate some of the types of tasks your agent can do when connected to the MCP server:
```
I don't think we should refer to it as "the server" because there is also W&B Server that is the backend in Self-Managed and Dedicated Cloud.

Author: Fair

> * _Show me the top 5 runs by eval/accuracy in your-team-name/your-project-name?_

Reviewer: Not sure these should be italicized

* _How did the latency of my hiring agent predict traces evolve over the last few months?_
* _Generate a wandb report comparing the decisions made by the hiring agent last month._
* _How do I create a leaderboard in Weave - ask SupportBot?_

> ### Available tools

Reviewer: Maybe something in the first paragraph about how an MCP server publishes a series of tools?

| Tool | Description | Example Query |
|------|-------------|---------------|
| **query_wandb_tool** | Query W&B runs, metrics, and experiments | *"Show me runs with loss < 0.1"* |
| **query_weave_traces_tool** | Analyze LLM traces and evaluations | *"What's the average latency?"* |
| **count_weave_traces_tool** | Count traces and get storage metrics | *"How many traces failed?"* |
| **create_wandb_report_tool** | Create W&B reports programmatically | *"Create a performance report"* |
| **query_wandb_entity_projects** | List projects for an entity | *"What projects exist?"* |
| **query_wandb_support_bot** | Get help from W&B documentation | *"How do I use sweeps?"* |

## Use W&B's remote MCP server

W&B provides a hosted MCP server at `https://mcp.withwandb.com` that requires no installation. The following instructions show how to configure the hosted server with various AI assistants and IDEs.

> ### Prerequisites

Reviewer: This only works with Dedicated Cloud, right?

> * Get your W&B API key from [wandb.ai/authorize](https://wandb.ai/authorize).

Reviewer: You can't do this anymore, you can only create a new one or use an existing one that you saved securely when you created it.

Author: ah okay. Changing

* Set your key as an environment variable named `WANDB_API_KEY`.

### Configure your MCP client

> 

Reviewer: Maybe explain about choosing a tab here?

<Tabs>
<Tab title="Cursor">

> You can install the W&B server in Cursor automatically using [this one-click installation link](cursor://anysphere.cursor-deeplink/mcp/install?name=wandb&config=eyJ0cmFuc3BvcnQiOiJodHRwIiwidXJsIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9tY3Aud2l0aHdhbmRiLmNvbS9tY3AiLCJoZWFkZXJzIjp7IkF1dGhvcml6YXRpb24iOiJCZWFyZXIgWU9VUl9XQU5EQl9BUElfS0VZIiwiQWNjZXB0IjoiYXBwbGljYXRpb24vanNvbiwgdGV4dC9ldmVudC1zdHJlYW0ifX0=) (requires adding `Bearer <your-wandb-api-key>` in the `Authorization` field), or manually using the following instructions:

Reviewer: The link text here is not ideal.

Author: How about
"You can install the W&B server in Cursor automatically using a [one-click installation link]..."

1. On macOS, open the **Cursor** menu, select **Settings**, and then select **Cursor Settings**. On Windows or Linux, open the **Preferences** menu, select **Settings**, and then select **Cursor Settings**.
2. From the Cursor Settings menu, select **Tools and MCP**. This opens the Tools menu. 
3. In the Installed MCP Servers section, select **Add Custom MCP**. This opens the `mcp.json` configuration file.
4. In the configuration file, in the `mcpServers` JSON object, add the following `wandb` object:

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "wandb": {
      "transport": "http",
      "url": "https://mcp.withwandb.com/mcp",
      "headers": {
        "Authorization": "Bearer YOUR_WANDB_API_KEY",
        "Accept": "application/json, text/event-stream"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

5. Restart Cursor to make the changes take effect.
6. Verify that the chat agent has access to the W&B MCP server by entering the prompt "List the projects in my W&B account."

For more detailed information, see [Cursor's documentation](https://cursor.com/docs/context/mcp).

</Tab>
<Tab title="Claude Desktop">

> Claude Desktop does not currently support remote MCP servers. Use the [local installation](#set-up-a-local-version-of-the-w&b-mcp-server) instead.

Reviewer: It seems deceptive to offer this tab just to give bad news in it.

Author: yeah, I was on the fence about this. I'll remove it

For more detailed information, see [Claude Code's documentation](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code/mcp).

</Tab>
<Tab title="Codex">

To add the W&B MCP server to Codex, update the following command's `--bearer-token-env-var` argument with the environment variable containing your W&B API key, then run it in your terminal:

```bash
export WANDB_API_KEY=<your-api-key>
codex mcp add wandb --url https://mcp.withwandb.com/mcp --bearer-token-env-var WANDB_API_KEY
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="OpenAI">
To add the W&B MCP server to your OpenAI calls, add the server's information to the `tools` field of your OpenAI responses configuration:

```python
from openai import OpenAI
import os

client = OpenAI()

resp = client.responses.create(
    model="gpt-4o",
    tools=[{
        "type": "mcp",
        "server_label": "wandb",
        "server_description": "Query W&B data",
        "server_url": "https://mcp.withwandb.com/mcp",
        "authorization": os.getenv("WANDB_API_KEY"),
        "require_approval": "never",
    }],
    input="List the projects in my W&B account.",
)

print(resp.output_text)
```

<Note>

> OpenAI uses server-side MCP integration and does not work with localhost URLs. We recommend using the hosted server URL.

Reviewer: OK but here we are in the remote instructions, not the local instructions. Why say bad news about local instructions here?

Author: This was from the MCP server's readme. I totally missed this and don't know how it got in here. I should have checked this more thoroughly.

</Note>

</Tab>
<Tab title="Gemini CLI">

> To add the W&B MCP server to Gemini CLI, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the W&B MCP server to Gemini CLI:
```

1. Install the W&B MCP extension with a single command:

  ```bash
  # Install the extension
  gemini extensions install https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server
  ```
2. Once installed, restart the Gemini CLI.
3. Verify that the chat agent has access to the W&B MCP server by entering the prompt "List the projects in my W&B account."

For more detailed information, see [Gemini's documentation](https://geminicli.com/docs/tools/mcp-server/).
</Tab>
<Tab title="Mistral LeChat">

> To add the W&B MCP server to Mistral LeChat, do the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the W&B MCP server to Mistral LeChat: 
```

> 1. Open the **Intelligence** menu, then select **Add Connector**. This opens the Connector window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. From the **Intelligence** menu, select **Add Connector** to open the Connector window.
```

> 2. Select the **Custom MCP Connector** tab, and then configure the fields using the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the **Custom MCP Connector** tab.
3. Configure the fields using the following values:
```
If you accept it, re-number the following steps.

    - **Connector Server**: `https://mcp.withwandb.com/mcp`
    - **Description**: (Optional) A brief arbitrary description of the connection.
    - **Authentication Method**: Select **API Token Authentication**. This opens additional fields.
    - **Header name**: Leave the default value, **Authorization**.
    - **Header type**: Select **Bearer**.
    - **Header value**: Enter your W&B API token.

3. Once you have configured all the fields, select **Create**. LeChat adds the MCP server to your configuration.
4. Verify that the chat agent has access to the W&B MCP server by entering the prompt "List the projects in my W&B account."

For more detailed information, see [LeChat's documentation](https://mistral.ai/news/le-chat-mcp-connectors-memories).
</Tab>
</Tabs>

## Set up a local version of the W&B MCP server

> If you need to run the MCP server locally for development, testing, or air-gapped environments, you can install and run it on your machine.

Reviewer: Or W&B Self-Managed, right?

### Prerequisites

> * Get your W&B API key from [wandb.ai/authorize](https://wandb.ai/authorize).

Reviewer: Same feedback as above about getting vs creating new API keys.

* Set your key as an environment variable named `WANDB_API_KEY`.
* Set the `WANDB_BASE_URL` environment variable if you are using [W&B dedicated or on-prem instances](/platform/hosting/hosting-options/self-managed).
* Python 3.10 or higher
* [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/) (recommended) or pip

> To install uv, run the following curl command:

Reviewer: Do we need to give the install command or have them check the `uv` docs?

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

### Install and configure the MCP server

> To install the W&B MCP server on your local machine:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the W&B MCP server on your local machine, choose `uv` or `pip`.
```

> 1. Run one of the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

<Tabs>
<Tab title="uv">
```bash
uv install wandb-mcp-server
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="pip">
```bash
pip install wandb-mcp-server
```
</Tab>
<Tab title="Install directly from GitHub">
```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server
```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

> 2. Once you have installed the server, configure your MCP client to use the local server instead of the hosted version at `https://mcp.withwandb.com/mcp`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Once you have installed the MCP server locally, configure your MCP client to use it. Select an MCP client to continue.
```

      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="VS Code">

Add the following to your `.vscode/mcp.json` or global MCP configuration:

```json
{
  "servers": {
    "wandb": {
      "command": "uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server",
        "wandb_mcp_server"
      ],
      "env": {
        "WANDB_API_KEY": "YOUR_API_KEY",
        "WANDB_BASE_URL": "https://your-wandb-instance.example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="Claude Code">

Run the following command in your terminal. Add `--scope user` for a global configuration, or omit it to configure for the current project only.

```bash
claude mcp add wandb \
  -e WANDB_API_KEY=your-api-key \
  -e WANDB_BASE_URL=https://your-wandb-instance.example.com \
  -- uvx --from git+https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server wandb_mcp_server
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="Codex">

Run the following command in your terminal:

```bash
codex mcp add wandb \
  --env WANDB_API_KEY=your_api_key_here \
  --env WANDB_BASE_URL=https://your-wandb-instance.example.com \
  -- uvx --from git+https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server wandb_mcp_server
```

</Tab>
<Tab title="Claude Desktop">

> Claude Desktop does not currently support remote MCP servers, so a local configuration is required. Add the following to your Claude config file. Use the full path to `uvx` because Claude Desktop may not find your `uvx` installation otherwise.

Reviewer: OK but you are in the local tab, maybe we don't need bad news about remote servers.

```bash
# macOS
open ~/Library/Application\ Support/Claude/claude_desktop_config.json

> # Windows

Reviewer: Can you just tell them to open it in a text editor?

notepad %APPDATA%\Claude\claude_desktop_config.json
```

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "wandb": {
      "command": "/full/path/to/uvx",
      "args": [
        "--from",
        "git+https://github.com/wandb/wandb-mcp-server",
        "wandb_mcp_server"
      ],
      "env": {
        "WANDB_API_KEY": "YOUR_API_KEY",
        "WANDB_BASE_URL": "https://your-wandb-instance.example.com"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> Restart Claude Desktop to activate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restart Claude Desktop to activate the new configuration.
```

</Tab>
</Tabs>

> <Note>

Reviewer: This is a bit confusing to have AFTER the tab contents that would tell you to use it.

The `WANDB_BASE_URL` environment variable is only required for dedicated cloud or on-premises W&B instances. Omit it if you use W&B's multi-tenant cloud at `api.wandb.ai`.
</Note>

> 3. For web-based clients or testing, run the server with HTTP transport:

Reviewer: Not enough indentation in the code blocks here. Does this need to be within the tabbed instructions above instead?
